Welcome to the Open Access Statistics Plug-In!
----------------------------------------------

This plug-in provides a simple way to transmit statistics to the Open Access
Statistics (OA-S) service provider.

Before installing or configuring this plugin please have a look at the [OA-S
web site](http://www.dini.de/projekte/oa-statistik/). You'll find a good
overview over the [OA-S architecture]
(http://www.dini.de/projekte/oa-statistik/die-technik/) there, too.

The basic idea of OA-S can be described as a co-operation of two institutions:

 1. The data provider (in this case an OJS installation) tracks access to
    documents: article and issue galleys, article abstracts and supplementary
    files.
 2. Access data will then be made available to the OA-S service provider through
    a protected OAI interface and harvested by OA-S.
 3. The OA-S service provider will clean the raw data and produce aggregate
    metrics based on the COUNTER standard.
 4. The data provider (OJS) retrieves metrics from the service provider (OA-S)
    on a daily basis and stores them in OJS. 

These metrics can then be used in different ways in OJS, e.g.

 - They can be displayed to the editors, authors and readers on their respective
   internal and external article pages.
 - They can be used in search for ranking.
 - Editors can produce elaborate statistics reports.
 - Readers can list "most viewed articles" of a journal.
 - Readers can list "other (more viewed) articles of the same author" of an
   article.
 - Readers can list "similar (more viewed) articles" on an article's page.
 - etc. 

 
Registration
------------

Go to the [OA-S registration page]
(http://www.dini.de/projekte/oa-statistik/die-technik/registrierung/).

Enter the following data to register for OA-S:
 
 - repository name (Name des Repositories): Choose a repository name that
   corresponds to your ojs installation (not to a single journal!).
   
 - DINI certificate (DINI Zertifikat): Select your DINI certificate level.
 
 - Data Provider URL: You'll have to be very careful to enter the correct data
   provider URL here, otherwise statistics cannot be retrieved from the OA-S
   project. The correct data provider URL consists of your installations base
   URL + the extension '/index.php/index/oas/oai'.
   
   The base URL is set in config.inc.php, section [general], parameter
   'base_url'.
   
   Here an example:
   Assume your base URL was 'http://ojs-test.cedis.fu-berlin.de/ojs-oas'. Then
   the correct data provider URL would be:
   
   http://ojs-test.cedis.fu-berlin.de/ojs-oas/index.php/index/oas/oai
 
 - Identifier Prefix: Please enter 'ojs' (all lowercase!).
 
 - Reporting Frequency (Auswertungshäufigkeit): Please choose 'daily' (täglich).
 
 - Processing Period (Bearbeitungszeitraum): Please choose 'day' (Tag).
 
 - Export Format: Please choose 'CSV'.

 - Enter the remaining contact data.
 
It is important that you register exactly with the above parameters. Otherwise
your OJS installation will not be able to communicate with the OA-S service
provider.


Installation
------------

Please see the general instructions provided by the OJS project how to install
external plugins. Download the plugin from the plugin gallery, extract it into
your plugin folder and execute the upgrade script:

#> php tools/upgrade.php upgrade


Configuration (plugin)
----------------------

Before you can configure your plugin you'll have to wait for OA-S to provide
the following information:

 - your OA-S statistics server URL, username and password
 - the SALT server username and password 

Usually this information will be sent to you by email upon registration. Keep
it in reach for plugin configuration.

Once you received the above data, log in as a journal manager. Then go to the
journal manager's "System Plugins" management page. If you correctly installed 
the OA-S plugin the you'll find it in the "generic plugins" category.

Activate the plugin and go to its settings page.

Enter a privacy message and create a password to protect your OA-S statistics
interface from unauthorized access. Without setting a password, your interface
will not work.

Once you created an OA-S OAI password you'll have to send it by email to the
OA-S project (oas@gbv.de). Please make sure you include the repository name or
other identifying information in that email, so that OA-S can correctly
attribute your password to your repository.

Next enter the OA-S statistics server and SALT server information into the
corresponding form fields and save your configuration.

If the data you entered is not valid you'll receive error messages that will
help you correct the error.


Configuration (OJS)
-------------------

Some of the statistics use cases may require you to configure a "main metric".
This will only be necessary if you have more than one statistics plugin
configured for OJS or if you have a statistics plugin that provides more than
one metric.

In this case (and only then) you'll find a site-level "main metric" selector
on the administrator's site settings page and on journal level on the journal
manager's 'stats & reports' page.

If you select a "main metric" on site level but not on journal level, then the
site level metric will be used by default for all journals.

With this in mind please configure a "main metric" on site level and
(optionally) on journal level if necessary.  


Updating Statistics
-------------------

Once you configured your plugin, you automatically start collecting statistics
data that will then be harvested by the OA-S project. If you configured the
plugin correctly then this will work without requiring further interference on
your side.

OA-S will provide the aggregate statistics on their side. To download the
statistics data to your OJS installation you have two different options:

 - If you know how to install and configure a cron job then this is the
   preferred configuration.
   
   Please install a cron job with the following parameters:
   
   working directory: your OJS installation directory
   command line:
     #> php tools/runScheduledTask.php plugins/generic/oas/scheduledTasks.xml
   schedule: daily, monthly or less, depending on how often you'd like your
     statistics to be updated.
   
 - If you don't know how to configure a cron job or if you want to update
   statistics manually then you have to go to the plugin settings page to update
   your data. On this settings page you'll find an "Update Statistics" button.
   Click it to download all available statistics files from the OA-S server.
   

Using OA-S statistics
---------------------

OA-S statistics can be used exactly in the same way as other statistics in OJS.
You can generate reports and the statistics will be shown and / or used in
different places in OJS. See the introductory list of potential statistics use
cases in this README.

These use cases are not specific to the OA-S statistics plugin. Please refer
to the general OJS documentation for more information.